# Traditional-Feature-Extraction-Methods
Feature Extraction is an integral step for Image Processing jobs. This repository contains the python codes for Traditonal Feature Extraction Methods from an image dataset, namely Gabor, Haralick, Tamura, GLCM and GLRLM.
## Gabor filters:
In image processing, a Gabor filter, named after Dennis Gabor, is a linear filter used for edge detection. Frequency and orientation representations of Gabor filters are similar to those of the human visual system, and they have been found to be particularly appropriate for texture representation and discrimination. In the spatial domain, a 2D Gabor filter is a Gaussian kernel function modulated by a sinusoidal plane wave. Simple cells in the visual cortex of mammalian brains can be modeled by Gabor functions. Thus, image analysis with Gabor filters is thought to be similar to perception in the human visual system.

Read more about Gabor filters in this paper by Arora et al.: [A Review Paper on Gabor Filter Algorithm & Its Applications](http://ijarece.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/IJARECE-VOL-6-ISSUE-9-1003-1007.pdf)
## Gray Level Co-occurence Matrix(GLCM):
Haralick et al.(1973): [Textural Features for Image Classification](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/4309314)
#### Abstract of the paper:
Texture is one of the important characteristics used in identifying objects or regions of interest in an image, whether the image be a photomicrograph, an aerial photograph, or a satellite image. This paper describes some easily computable textural features based on gray-tone spatial dependancies, and illustrates their application in category-identification tasks of three different kinds of image data: photomicrographs of five kinds of sandstones, 1:20 000 panchromatic aerial photographs of eight land-use categories, and Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS) multispecial imagery containing seven land-use categories. We use two kinds of decision rules: one for which the decision regions are convex polyhedra (a piecewise linear decision rule), and one for which the decision regions are rectangular parallelpipeds (a min-max decision rule). In each experiment the data set was divided into two parts, a training set and a test set. Test set identification accuracy is 89 percent for the photomicrographs, 82 percent for the aerial photographic imagery, and 83 percent for the satellite imagery. These results indicate that the easily computable textural features probably have a general applicability for a wide variety of image-classification applications.
## Gray Level Run Length Matrix(GLRLM):
Galloway et al.(1975): [Texture analysis using grey level run lengths](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1974STIN...7518555G/abstract)
## Haralick features:
Haralick texture features are calculated from a Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrix, (GLCM), a matrix that counts the co-occurrence of neighboring gray levels in the image. 
## Tamura features:
Tamura et al. (1978): [Textural Features Corresponding to Visual Perception](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/4309999)
#### Abstract of the paper:
Textural features corresponding to human visual perception are very useful for optimum feature selection and texture analyzer design. We approximated in computational form six basic textural features, namely, coarseness, contrast, directionality, line-likeness, regularity, and roughness. In comparison with psychological measurements for human subjects, the computational measures gave good correspondences in rank correlation of 16 typical texture patterns. Similarity measurements using these features were attempted. The discrepancies between human vision and computerized techniques that we encountered in this study indicate fundamental problems in digital analysis of textures. Some of them could be overcome by analyzing their causes and using more sophisticated techniques.
